# MRI Preprocessing Code
This directory contains all necessary scripts to perform pre-processing of the supplied MRI data. There are 6 distinct steps in this process, each with its own script to allow for modular use and testing.

The overall flow of the preprocessing is as follows:
1. Scan the supplied DICOM raw data directory to extract relevant DICOM header information.
2. Parse the extracted DICOM information to identify and categorize the different scan types.
    - Attempts to identify and isolate the contrast sequence, orders the scans based on timing information.
3. Convert the relevant DICOM files into NIfTI format.
4. Reorient the NIfTI files into RAS orientation.
5. Align the scans to the first post-contrast scan.
6. Calculate the contrast enhancement (DCE-in) and washout (DCE-out) images, and generate the final input files for the model.

These scripts are intended to be used within the supplied docker container, which provides a consistent environment with all necessary dependencies installed. The container can be started using the provided `start_control.sh` script in the root directory of the project. This bash script will ask for the path to the raw data directory, and enable a webserver (currently outdated, TODO: allow flag to disable server component --noweb) to view and control the preprocessing.


>The following scripts are intended run inside of the control server docker container, but can be run outside the container if all dependencies are installed.

### Dependencies:

## Overview of individual scripts

### 00_preprocess.sh
> This script is called by the web-server when the user starts the processing.  It includes print statements to report progress back to the web-server for dashboard updates.

Shell script to run all preprocessing steps sequentially, requires an update to pass cli parameters required by updated python scripts.

### 01_scanDicom.py
Python script to scan and extract DICOM data from the headers of the supplied MRI data<br>
Produces 'Data_table.csv' containing extracted DICOM header information for all scans in the supplied directory.<br><br>
Input parameters:
- `--scan_dir <...>` : Path to the raw DICOM data directory (default /FL_system/data/raw/)
- `--save_dir <...>` : Path to the output directory for extracted DICOM information (default /FL_system/data/)
- `--multi N` or `-m N` : Enable multiprocessing (default cpu_count - 1)
- `--test N` : Enable test mode, only process N directories (default 100)
- `--profile` or `-p` : Enable yappi profiling<br>
**The following parameeters are included for HPC compatibility, and are not required for standard use.**
- `--dir_list <...>` : Path to a text file containing a list of directories to process (default 'dirs_to_process.txt')
- `--dir_idx N` : Index of the directory to process from the dir_list

### 02_parseDicom.py
Python script to parse the extracted DICOM headers in an attempt to identify and isolate the contrast sequence for each exam.<br><br>
This script also attempts to order the individual scans in the sequence based on available timing information, and generates a 'Data_table_timing.csv' file to be used in subsequent steps, with the timing information used for slope generation in step 6.<br><br>
Input parameters:
- `--load_table <...>` : Path to the table generated by 01_scanDicom.py (default /FL_system/data/Data_table.csv)
- `--save_dir <...>` : Path to the output directory for the timing table (default /FL_system/data/)
- `--multi N` or `-m N` : Enable multiprocessing (default cpu_count - 1)
- `--filter_only` : Only perform the filtering step, do not attempt to order the scans (useful for debugging)
**The following parameeters are included for HPC compatibility, and are not required for standard use.**
- `--dir_list <...>` : Path to a text file containing a list of directories to process (default 'dirs_to_process.txt')
- `--dir_idx N` : Index of the directory to process from the dir_list

### 03_saveNifti.py
Python script to convert the relevant DICOM files into NIfTI format.<br><br>
**Pending upgrade to process
Input parameters:
- `--load_table <...>` : Path to the timing table generated by 02_parseDicom.py (default /FL_system/data/Data_table_timing.csv)


    - '02_parseDicom.py' : Python script to parse the extracted DICOM data and generate a CSV file.
        - This script filters out unnecessary scans, and generates a 'Data_table_timing.csv' file.
        - This file contains the timing information for each scan, in the format of Major and Minor blocks.
    - '03_saveNifti.py' : Converts the required DICOM directories into nifti files.
        - This script uses the 'Data_table_timing.csv' file to determine which scans to convert.
        - Saves files in '/data/nifti/{sesionID}/' directory and names them according to the Major/Minor ordering.
    - '04_saveRAS.py' : Converts the nifti files into RAS orientation.
        - This script uses the 'Data_table_timing.csv' file to determine which scans to convert.
        - Saves files in '/data/nifti/{sessionID}/' directory and names them according to the Major/Minor ordering.
    - '05_alignScans.py' : Converts the RAS oriented nifti files into BIDS format.
    - '06_genInputs.py' : Generates the input files for the next stage of the pipeline.
        - This script generates the 'Data_table_inputs.csv' file, which contains the paths to the BIDS formatted nifti files.
